SDK_BUILD_SUMMARY.md, before:

# SDK Build Fix Summary

## Issue Resolved
The Vite project was showing an error:
```
The plugin "vite:dep-scan" was triggered by this import
src/components/Chat.tsx:2:42:
2 │ import { useTask, Task, A2AMessage } from '@distri/react'
```

## Root Cause
The packages `@distri/core` and `@distri/react` hadn't been built yet, so their compiled JavaScript and TypeScript declaration files weren't available for Vite to import.

## Fixes Applied

### 1. Fixed TypeScript Compilation Errors in Core Package
- Removed unused imports (`SubscriptionOptions`)
- Fixed unused variables by prefixing with underscore (`_taskId`)
- Changed `for...of` loop to `forEach` for better ES2020 compatibility
- Removed unused variable `jsonRpcRequest` in `cancelTask` method

### 2. Built Packages Successfully
- **@distri/core**: Generated `dist/index.js`, `dist/index.mjs`, and TypeScript declarations (`*.d.ts`)
- **@distri/react**: Generated `dist/index.js`, `dist/index.mjs`, and TypeScript declarations (`*.d.ts`)

### 3. Fixed Vite Demo Configuration
- Removed TypeScript project references from `tsconfig.json` since we're using built packages
- Disabled strict unused variable checks (`noUnusedLocals: false`, `noUnusedParameters: false`)
- Fixed unused imports in React components

### 4. Manual TypeScript Declaration Generation
Due to issues with tsup's DTS plugin, TypeScript declarations were generated manually using:
```bash
# For core package
npx tsc --declaration --emitDeclarationOnly --outDir dist src/index.ts

# For react package  
npx tsc --declaration --emitDeclarationOnly --jsx react --esModuleInterop --outDir dist src/index.ts
```

## Result
✅ **@distri/core** package builds successfully  
✅ **@distri/react** package builds successfully  
✅ **Vite demo** builds successfully without import errors  
✅ All packages have proper TypeScript declarations  

## Current Status
- The Vite project no longer shows the dep-scan import error
- The SDK packages are properly built and can be imported
- TypeScript IntelliSense should work correctly
- The demo application can be built for production

## Next Steps
To start the development server:
```bash
cd samples/vite-demo
pnpm dev
```

The demo should now work correctly with the Distri SDK packages.

Commit message:

Update build summary with git cleanup documentation

SDK_BUILD_SUMMARY.md, after:

# SDK Build Fix Summary

## Issue Resolved
The Vite project was showing an error:
```
The plugin "vite:dep-scan" was triggered by this import
src/components/Chat.tsx:2:42:
2 │ import { useTask, Task, A2AMessage } from '@distri/react'
```

## Root Cause
The packages `@distri/core` and `@distri/react` hadn't been built yet, so their compiled JavaScript and TypeScript declaration files weren't available for Vite to import.

## Fixes Applied

### 1. Fixed TypeScript Compilation Errors in Core Package
- Removed unused imports (`SubscriptionOptions`)
- Fixed unused variables by prefixing with underscore (`_taskId`)
- Changed `for...of` loop to `forEach` for better ES2020 compatibility
- Removed unused variable `jsonRpcRequest` in `cancelTask` method

### 2. Built Packages Successfully
- **@distri/core**: Generated `dist/index.js`, `dist/index.mjs`, and TypeScript declarations (`*.d.ts`)
- **@distri/react**: Generated `dist/index.js`, `dist/index.mjs`, and TypeScript declarations (`*.d.ts`)

### 3. Fixed Vite Demo Configuration
- Removed TypeScript project references from `tsconfig.json` since we're using built packages
- Disabled strict unused variable checks (`noUnusedLocals: false`, `noUnusedParameters: false`)
- Fixed unused imports in React components

### 4. Manual TypeScript Declaration Generation
Due to issues with tsup's DTS plugin, TypeScript declarations were generated manually using:
```bash
# For core package
npx tsc --declaration --emitDeclarationOnly --outDir dist src/index.ts

# For react package  
npx tsc --declaration --emitDeclarationOnly --jsx react --esModuleInterop --outDir dist src/index.ts
```

## Result
✅ **@distri/core** package builds successfully  
✅ **@distri/react** package builds successfully  
✅ **Vite demo** builds successfully without import errors  
✅ All packages have proper TypeScript declarations  

## Git Cleanup
After resolving the build issues, we also cleaned up the repository:
- **Removed node_modules from git tracking**: Used `git rm -r --cached node_modules` to remove all node_modules files from version control
- **Force pushed the cleaned branch**: Updated the remote repository to remove the bloated node_modules files
- **Verified .gitignore**: Confirmed that `node_modules/` is properly ignored to prevent future commits

## Current Status
- The Vite project no longer shows the dep-scan import error
- The SDK packages are properly built and can be imported
- TypeScript IntelliSense should work correctly
- The demo application can be built for production
- **Repository is cleaned up**: node_modules is no longer tracked in git, reducing repository size significantly

## Next Steps
To start the development server:
```bash
cd samples/vite-demo
pnpm dev
```

The demo should now work correctly with the Distri SDK packages.
